---
layout: ../../../layouts/OldClickablePostLayout.astro
title:  "Clickable 2.0.0"
date:   2017-12-17 00:39:00 -0500
categories: clickable releases
---

I am very excited to announce the release of Clickable 2.0.0! Clickable has really
evolved from a collection or commands to a full development tool for Ubuntu
Touch. Clickable 2.0.0 builds off the last release and takes everything up a notch.

Last release brought a PPA and beta docker support. That beta docker support has
now graduated to being the default option. One of the main driving factors behind
switching to docker over lxd is that docker has better support cross distro. So
users on non-Ubuntu distros can enjoy the same level of support as Ubuntu-based
distros do (without having to mess with lxd trickery). Another reason for the
switch is that the Ubuntu Vivid repository was moved to
[old-releases.ubuntu.com](http://old-releases.ubuntu.com). This caused all the
lxd containers to break. Rather than mess with compiling a new lxd image, I tried
using docker instead and enjoyed the fact that it is much simpler to setup than
lxd. To start using docker with clickable you will first need to install
docker (`sudo apt-get install docker.io` on most Ubuntu systems) and then run
`clickable setup-docker` for some final configuration.

In addition to the docker support clickable now has a new sub-command, `clickable shell`.
Shell mimics the behavior of `phablet-shell` with out the need to actually
have `phablet-shell` on the system. Using `clickable shell` is a bit better than
using `adb shell` because it overcomes some of `adb`'s limits by setting up an
ssh connections over the connected usb cable.

Last, but not least of this release is that clickable now has a full set of
documentation! You can find it online at
[clickable-ut.dev](http://clickable-ut.dev).

[Install clickable fresh from the PPA](http://clickable-ut.dev/en/latest/install.html).

[Let me know if you have any issues](https://github.com/bhdouglass/clickable/issues)!
