---
layout: ../../../layouts/OldClickablePostLayout.astro
title:  "Clickable 5.0.0"
date:   2018-10-03 12:17:00 -0400
categories: clickable releases
---

Today marks the release of Clickable v5.0.0. I'm very pleased to get this
released, as it has been a beta for a while, both as a private beta and public
beta (A huge thank you to the beta testers!). There are quite a few changes
in this release, I'll go over a few of them them briefly but the full list can
be found in the
[Clickable docs](http://clickable-ut.dev/en/latest/changelog.html).

The first change that most people will notice is that Clickable is now Xenial
first, meaning without arguments Clickable will automatically build your app for
Xenial. This removes the need to use the `--xenial` argument. In it's place
comes the `--vivid` flag to allow you to still compile your app for 15.04 if
needed. The removal of the `--desktop` argument will also be noticed by many
developers. Don't worry, desktop mode has not been completely removed, it's just
been changed to be more intuitive. Now you can run `clickable desktop` to test
your app on the desktop. All the app templates have also been updated to
support Xenial first. You can access them via the `clickable create` command.

Another removal was support for chroots. The click chroots are no longer
maintained and depricated in favor of the Docker containers. The Docker
containers are constantly kept up to date with the latest from UBports so they
will have the best compatibility for compiling for devices. Note that LXD
containers are still supported, but Docker containers are recommended. Along
with the removal of chroots, the `setup-docker` command has also been removed.
Rather than require users to run this command first and possibly be confused
when they don't run it, this has been built into using Docker in general.
Clickable will now automatically detect the need for setting up Docker and
prompt the user to restart their shell when necessary.

Clickable has also gone through some major changes under the hood. The code has
been completely refactored to split up the monstrous single file that has been
been there for most of Clickable's lifespan. Each command has been split into
it's own class/file making things easier to write and test. And speaking of
testing, Clickable now has the beginnings of a test suite. Since Clickable is relied
on by many developers, it's more important now that it has proper testing to
ensure there are no breaks or bugs. Clickable has also got a new home on
[GitLab](https://gitlab.com/clickable)! I've chosen to move my projects over
to [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/bhdouglass) starting with Clickable. I'm doing
this mainly because I like GitLab's offering and also want to support their open
source efforts. Clickable will still be available on GitHub for a time, but all
development efforts will be coordinated via GitLab.

For the full change log check out the
[Clickable docs](http://clickable-ut.dev/en/latest/changelog.html).
If you run into any issues with v5.0.0 please report them in the
[GitLab Issues](https://gitlab.com/clickable/clickable/issues).
I also have a [Liberapay page](https://liberapay.com/bhdouglass) if you want to
support my open source development, I really enjoy doing this work and want to
be able to do more for Ubuntu Touch.
