---
layout: ../../../layouts/BlogPostLayout.astro
title:  "OpenStore App 2.93"
date:   2020-02-28 00:43:00 -0400
categories: openstore releases
---

Over last week and weekend I was able to sit down to make a few updates to the OpenStore app.
My goal was to smooth over some rough edges and provide some new features. The first new feature
is the addition of an app's type to both the app search/cateogry list and the app
page itself. Apps can contain multiple types ranging from App and Scopes (RIP)
to Webapps and Webapp+s. The website has been displaying these types since pretty
much the beginning and now the app displays them as well. One of the rough edges
that I was able to smooth over is the displaying of permissions. Rather than
showing exactly what is in the app's apparmor file, the OpenStore app will now
show a human readable (and translatable!) version of the app's permissions. And
speaking of permissions, when installing an unconfined app users will now see
a warning popup before install. This replaces the first launch popup that was
very scary to users and came from a time before the OpenStore became the official
app store for Ubuntu Touch. Back then the OpenStore was only a place for hacks
and unconfined apps that you could not get in the Canonical app store. In addition
to these new features there were also a couple bug fixes. The installed apps list
now sorts alphabetically in a case insensitive manner (the way one would expect
it to sort). And lastly the empty space in the OpenStore's app page has now been
filled (for other apps this space holds an "open" button, but that doesn't make
sense for the OpenStore!).

If you run into any issues with the latest update, feel free to
[send a bug report](https://gitlab.com/theopenstore/openstore-meta/issues)!
