---
layout: ../../../layouts/TechPostLayout.astro
title:  "Clickable v6.9.0"
date:   2020-02-13 01:09:00 -0400
categories: clickable releases
---

Clickable v6.9.0 has been out for a short while now with several small changes.
`dependencies_build` has been replaced by `dependencies_host` to avoid confusion,
meaning `dependencies_build` now deprecated. Another deprecation is the `$PLACEHOLDER`
style syntax. It has been superseded by the `${PLACEHOLDER}` syntax. This will help
avoid issues like the ARCH placholder breaking the ARCH_TRIPLET placeholder
(which had been previously fixed). And speaking of placeholders, they are now allowed
to be in the `env_vars` configuration. The last deprecation of v6.9.0 is the
`python` build template. This is an old template for building python apps for
Ubuntu Touch 15.04 (back then the pyothersides library wasn't build into the image).
This has been replaced by the `precompiled` build template, which allows you to
build an app like the `pure` template, but also sets an architecture for precompiled
binaries/libraries that you might want to include. This release also improves and
fixes the `install_*` configuration options. These options allow you to pull arbitrary
file & libraries from the Clickable docker container. With this you can easily
install dependencies into your click app that aren't present in the base Ubuntu
Touch system. v6.9.0 fixes and issue where bash could be executed from these
directives. And for `install_qml` it will install qml modules in the correct
path to reflect its module name. There are also some other bug fixes and improvements,
especially around the architecture (which now includes tests to gaurd against regression bugs).

If you run into any issues with Clickable please report them in the
[GitLab Issues](https://gitlab.com/clickable/clickable/issues).
